Rails Friends

This is a simple introductory Ruby on Rails project that I created as my first Ruby project! This is a friend list website where users can create friends lists and keep track of their information such as name, phone number, email, and twitter handles. I have used Laravel before to manually create the CRUD routes, and I can definitely see why Ruby and Rails is so popular! It was very easy to not only set up all the pages needed to create, read, update, and delete, but also to set up functionality for logins and different user pages - something I haven't learned how to do yet with Laravel.

I followed a tutorial for this project, (you can find it here! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fmyvWz5TUWg&t=1588s) however, I hope to add code for a seeder so I can seed the database I have created with many users, each with varying amounts of friends. The records you may see currently if you visit where I have it hosted are each of my cats! I'm a crazy cat lady, so their information is often ready to use when I just need to test initial functionality.

The tutorial I followed is actually from 2020 - since I have some development experience already, I thought I would add an extra layer of challenge and that is following the tutorial but using the current versioning, and I have to say, I'm very proud of how well I did! I had a few choice words for my computer throughout the process, but I figured out every issue but 1.

First, I had to deal with the tzinfo-data gem error since I do all my development work on Windows. That was rather frustrating, as I was trying different lines after adding tzinfo and tzinfo-data to my Gemfile, running the bundle, installing the bundles over and over again. There is where I had the most amount of choice words - nothing was working and I luckily, I remembered sometimes computers are weird, and decided to try restarting my computer, and some sort of magic happened and it worked! Wish I had tried that 15 minutes into trying different lines, but at least it finally worked.

The next thing that was different is after generating the friends migration file, pushing it to the database and using devise to generate all the friends resources, the index.html.erb file under friends looks to default to a table format in the tutorial, however, it defaulted to just a simple div section with p tags for each piece of information for each record. I liked the table look better however, so I just used Bootstrap 5 and used their default table structure to create the table as you see it now. I kept the friend information in the _friend component just in case it may be used elsewhere, although I had to update that code as well. I then loop through each friend on the index page to show information for each friend in my table.

Another feature I had to research is both for the signing out of a logged in user and for deleting a record. For whatever reason, using "link_to" like in previous versions won't actually accomplish the action that is needed and I needed to update those lines to use "button_to" instead. This resulted in having to remove default button styling that was added to the "Sign Out" button in the navbar, which also meant I had to look up how to add a custom style sheet and reference it correctly. 

Any other differences from my code to the tutorial is mostly chalked up to new feature changes between Bootstrap 4 and 5, most notably in the _form component file. Plus I chose to use bootstrap margin classes rather than a bunch of line breaks.

The one issue I still cannot figure out is I can delete a record perfectly well, but I cannot figure out how to show a confirmation message beforehand. I know this will cause all sort of frustrations on behalf of users clicking a delete button by accident, but I just cannot figure it out. I don't know if there's an issue with my rails-turbo or stimulus? I tried creating a stimulus class and added a data-controller attribute to the parent html tag and updated my button accordingly, and it still won't show the confirmation message. I created an issue on github to track this and I have a question up on stackoverflow. Hopefully I will be able to work with someone - or possibly one of my current college professors to figure this out soon.

Thank you very much for checking this project out and I hope to just continue adding onto this website as I continue learning new features of Ruby!